Gdr 2387 (#134)
gdrplatform/gDRcore: vignettes/gDR-data-model.Rmd

# MultiAssayExperiment object

At its core, the `r Biocpkg("MultiAssayExperiment")` object is designed to hold a collection of `r Biocpkg("SummarizedExperiment")` objects, each representing a distinct experiment type within the gDR suite. This simplicity ensures a clean and efficient organization of data, facilitating a user-friendly experience.

To extract specific experiments from the `r Biocpkg("MultiAssayExperiment")` object, the `[[` operator can be used For example, to access the data related to combination experiments, one can use `MAE[["combination"]]`, where `MAE` represents the `r Biocpkg("MultiAssayExperiment")` object.

To gain insights into the available experiments within the `r Biocpkg("MultiAssayExperiment")` object, the `MultiAssayExperiment::experiments` function can be used.

# SummarizedExperiment object

The `r Biocpkg("SummarizedExperiment")` object emerges as a pivotal structure, integrating drug response data with essential metadata. This versatile container plays a central role in the storage of information related to drugs, cell lines, and experimental conditions, providing a comprehensive foundation for nuanced analysis within the gDR.

> The `r Biocpkg("SummarizedExperiment")` object in gDR comprises four essential components:

Reviewer: minor: consider: `comprises` => `contains`

Author: thanks, done

The gDR experiments contain two sets of assays. One set is for single-agent and co-dilution experiments (five basic assays), and another set is for combinations experiments (five basic assays plus four -- combination-specific).

List of assays (combination-specific assays were marked with the asterisk):

1. RawTreated -- stores treated references
2. Controls -- represents untreated, control references
3. Normalized -- represents normalized data to compute RelativeViability and GRValues (default gDR normalization types)
4. Averaged -- stores averaged replicates computed by the mean and standard deviation
5. Metrics -- contains fitted response curves
6. excess (*) -- excess data for each pair of concentration values (represents Bliss excess, HSA excess, and data smoothing values)
7. all_iso_points (*) stores isobologram points
8. isobolograms (*) -- stores isobologram curves
9. scores (*) -- scores data for each pair of concentration values (HSA score, Bliss Score, and CI (combination index) scores)

> All assays are represented by `r Biocpkg("BumpyMatrix")` objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All assays are stored as `r Biocpkg("BumpyMatrix")` objects.
```

Author: Thanks, done
